# StoryTeller

A step-by-step introduction to the process of the entire Long Video Description pipeline. We also provide intermediate results generated by each step, so you can start from any step.

## Annotated Data
1. Caption: `data/raw_data/caption.json`
2. Audio Diarization: `data/raw_data/diarization.json`
3. Partition of Dataset: `data/raw_data/split.json`
4. Main Actor in each Clip: `data/raw_data/ref_actor`

## Video Files
Similar to Movie101, not public due to copyright issues

Please contact `hyc@bytedance.com`

## 1. Generate the frames and audio files by processing the video.
```bash
python script/preprocess/preprocess.py
```
- Input video path: data/video
- Output frame path: data/frame
- Output audio path: data/audio

#### Complete Data
```
data
├── audio
├── audio_visual_diarization
├── frame
├── global_diarization
├── long_video_description
├── raw_data
├── scene_detect
└── video
```

## 2. Split the 3-min video clip into small segments through auto scene change detection and some rules.
First, split the video into small segments through auto scene change detection, the results are stored in `data/raw_data/scene_detect`.
```bash
pip install scenedetect
scenedetect -i movie.mp4 -o data/raw_data/scene_detect -q detect-adaptive -t 2.0 list-scenes
```
Then some post-processing steps will be used to process the generated storyboard data, to merge short segments and to ensure that a single dialogue is not cut into two segments as much as possible, the final split file is saved in `data/scene_detect/scene_split_new.json`.
```bash
python script/scene_split/scene_split.py
python script/scene_split/update_scene_split.py
```

## 3. Generate reference photos for each character in the 3-min clip.
For the MovieQA dataset, we provided a cast list for each clip in advance. For other movies, the cast list can be easily obtained from the IMDb cast list and a general facial recognition algorithm.

## 4. Do the global audio diarization in each 3-min clip.
Model: ERes2NetV2 \
Model Path: checkpoints/eres2netv2/embedding_model.ckpt

> Please note that our audio embedding model is finetuned on 167 chinese movies, if you want to achieve better results in movies in other languages, you can consider using the origin model.

We simply use the inference code in the repo: [3D-Speaker](https://github.com/modelscope/3D-Speaker), and get the audio embedding of each input audio. The predict embeddings are saved in `data/global_diarization/embeddings.jsonl`.

Evaluation the performance of the embeddings:
```bash
python script/global_diarization/eval_embedding.py --input_file data/global_diarization/embeddings.jsonl
```

Then, a clustering algorithm is used to assign the same Global ID to embeddings that are close in distance, the result is saved in `data/global_diarization/diarization_id.jsonl`. The same global ID means that the model predicts that these dialogs are spoken by the same person.
```bash
python script/global_diarization/update_diarization.py --input_file data/global_diarization/embeddings.jsonl --output_file data/global_diarization/diarization_id.jsonl
```

|Metric|Precision|Recall|F1|
|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|Score|0.90|0.41|0.56|

## 5. Audio Visual Character Identification

Model: Tarsier-7B with OpenAI Wisper-large-v2 audio encoder \
Model Path: checkpoints/Whisper-large-v2-Tarsier-7B-character-identification

In step 4, we have assigned a unique ID to each segment of the audio. Now, we will use MLLM to map each ID to a character in the actor list. If the character is not in the actor list, a description will be generated for it.

Generate input inference data and saved in `data/audio_visual_diarization/data.jsonl`
```bash
python script/audio_visual_diarization/gen_infer.py
```

Inferece the character name for each global ID.
```bash
python tasks/inference_quick_start.py \
    --model_name_or_path checkpoints/Whisper-large-v2-Tarsier-7B-character-identification \
    --input_path data/audio_visual_diarization/data.jsonl \
    --output_path data/audio_visual_diarization/0.jsonl
```

Find conflict inference and generate to be corrected inference data saved in `data/audio_visual_diarization/align_data/data.jsonl`
```bash
python script/audio_visual_diarization/alignment.py
```

Inferece the probability for each conflict ID-name pairs.
```bash
python tasks/inference_quick_start.py \
    --model_name_or_path checkpoints/Whisper-large-v2-Tarsier-7B-character-identification \
    --input_path data/audio_visual_diarization/align_data/data.jsonl \
    --output_path data/audio_visual_diarization/correct/0.jsonl
```

Generate the final corrected global audio diarization results, saved in `data/audio_visual_diarization/correct/test_diarization.json`

Character identification accuracy improvement before and after global audio diarization correction.

||Before|After|
|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|Correctable|70.0|81.1|
|Total|75.9|79.1|

## 6. Long Description Generation

Model: Tarsier-7B \
Model Path: checkpoints/Tarsier-7B-description-generation

Generating the final video description using the recognition results from step 5.

Generate input inference data and saved in `data/long_video_description/data.jsonl`
```python
python script/long_video_description/gen_infer.py
```

Inferece the description for each short video clip.
```bash
python tasks/inference_quick_start.py \
    --model_name_or_path checkpoints/Tarsier-7B-description-generation \
    --input_path data/long_video_description/data.jsonl \
    --output_path data/long_video_description/0.jsonl
```

Generate the danse descriptions.
```bash
python dense_description.py
```

Evaluation the description by answering MovieQAs.
```bash
python script/long_video_description/eval_qa_accuracy.py \
    --pred_caption_path result/tarsier/dense_caption_name.json \
    --out_path result/tarsier/qa_name.jsonl
```

Evaluating the quality of the video description using QAs.

|Model|Character|Action|Plot|Total|
|:-|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
Gemini-1.5-pro | 0.578 | 0.501 | 0.534 | 0.544 |
GPT-4o |0.517 | 0.479 | 0.528 |0.507 |
VILA1.5-8B |0.561 | 0.459 | 0.540 | 0.524 |
LLaVA-OneVision |0.557 | 0.454 | 0.540 | 0.520 |
Qwen2-VL-7B |0.549 | 0.468 | 0.549 | 0.523 |
InternVL2-8B |0.535 | 0.448 | 0.506 | 0.501 |
Tarsier-7B | 0.676 | 0.583 | 0.644 | 0.639 |

The output of each model can be found in `result`

## Checkpoints
Coming soon.

## Citation
Pleae cite us as:

```BibTeX

```